Google Ads research can get overwhelming
quickly because if you go online and you
search Google ads research you're gonna
find so many different ways of doing it
and ultimately I think we get confused
about Google ads research because we
kind of forget the objective and the
objective of Google ads research is to
find potential positive keywords and
negative keywords that you want to add
or exclude from your campaigns so that
way you can show up for the right kind
of things and not show up for the wrong
kind of things
hey guys Sylvia Perez from ad conversion
and in today's video I want to show you
some very simple and tactical ways you
can do keyword research so that way you
spend less time in overwhelm and more
time launching profitable Google ad
campaigns with that being said I want to
preface this video by saying even with
the most comprehensive keyword research
possible I mean you're using every
tactic known and you're using everything
possible to find all the potential
positive and negative keywords that you
want to add and exclude you're still not
going to find everything and the reality
is you can spend all the time in the
world doing keyword research but the
only real way you're gonna find out
what's working and what's not working
and the potential positive and negative
keywords that people are actually using
is launching your campaigns so I want to
show you these tactics but I want you to
keep in the back of your mind do not
overthink this just one of these tactics
one of these strategies is enough to
just get started and move the boat
forward get your campaigns launched so
you can get that real feedback tactic
number one in performing Google Ads
keyword research is your experience or
your clients experience you already know
what your product and service is so the
first place you can start is just asking
yourself what are the dream keywords
that if you could show up for you'd want
to so for your product the service what
are those dream keywords and if in the
case that you're doing this on the
behalf of a client you're a marketer
you're an agency whatever it might be
ask your client what are the dream
keywords that you want to show up for
because nine times out of ten you know
your business better than most so you
can already understand how your
customers are going to search another
good one too is instead of yourself
asking yourself what your dream keywords
would be is ask your friends and family
tell them hey if you were to go to
Google and search for my product or
service
what would you type in that's a great
way to get started using your experience
and the experience of others to find out
ways that they would search for your
product or service to kind of find those
things that you might not have thought
of on your own
the second tactic is the Google Ads
Keyword planner if there was just one
tactic I asked you to take away from
this video and the absolute essential of
all of them that you need to use is the
Google Ads keyword planner with just the
Google Ads keyword planner alone you'll
have more than enough information to
just get started to find those positive
keywords that you want to bid on and
those negative keywords that you want to
exclude now I've been the case you're
not familiar with what the Google Ads
Keyword planner is it's a free tool that
Google provides all you have to do is
create a free Google Ads account and
then you can access the Google Ads
keyword planner and in the Google Ads
keyword planner you'll be able to search
any one of the keywords that you're
thinking of bidding on for your product
or service and you can get estimates on
cost for those different keywords so
when you're putting together your budget
you can reference the Google Ads Keyword
planner to find those estimated costs
you can find out how much search volume
is for those keywords so the Google Ads
Keyword planner is going to give you a
really good understanding on the
difference between what you think people
are searching when it comes to your
product or service and what they're
actually searching because in the
keyword planner Google is aggregating
all the search data that people are
actually searching in relation to the
keyword that you put into the search bar
so you can find out all the different
types of searches people are making the
estimated cost and the search volume
associated with those different keywords
to access the keyword planner you're
going to go to tools and settings and
then from here you're gonna click on
keyword planner under planning and then
it's gonna open it up and the keyword
planner can look a little crazy at first
then it it can get a little bit
overwhelming if this is your first time
using it but all I want you to focus on
is just discovering new potential
keyword ideas whether they be positive
keywords or negative keywords so then
once it opens up you're gonna click on
discover new keywords right here and
then type in one of the keywords that
you'd like to show up for so type in one
of the services that you want to promote
with your Google Ads campaigns so let's
say for example you are a personal
injury attorney
so let's just search personal injury
attorney and I'm gonna click get results
and then from here it's gonna open up
the keyword planner and there's a lot of
different ways you can use a keyword
planner to like kind of going back to
that last page you can also search by
websites too so you can put in your
website there and they can give you
different ideas but the main thing here
is you're looking for different keyword
ideas that people search to find your
product or service that you want to
promote with your campaigns so going
let's say I'm a personal injury attorney
as you can see it's really expensive for
personal injury attorney $183 a click
now the thing I want you to pay
attention to here on the keyword planner
page is I want you to pay attention to
locations languages and you can leave
search networks to Google and you can
leave the time frame last 12 months
those I usually never touch the only
ones I usually change our locations and
languages so if you're a local business
you can go ahead and change locations
here just click on this pencil and you
can delete us and then you can change it
to whatever state you're in or if you
want to do it so like let's say you are
in Miami you can do it by city you could
even do it by you know zip code you can
get really specific now if you run into
the trouble if you search by like let's
say city for a local business and you
don't have a lot of keyword ideas I
usually like to expand it to a
nationwide level so like the US and
that'll just give you more ideas and
things of what people are searching to
find your product or service so here in
the keyword planner this is going to
give you a lot of ideas in terms of how
what people are searching how often
they're searching it you can see here in
this column you have average monthly
searches and then you can see here you
have estimated cost per clicks for these
keywords so you have here at the top of
page bid low range that's the minimum
that Google is estimating you need to
spend per click in order to show up for
this keyword and then you have the top
of page high bid which is the maximum
google recommends that you're going to
need to pay in order to show up on the
search results page I usually always
base my estimates on the top of page bid
I rather be safe than sorry
so I always like to take a
it's better to be prepared than
unprepared approach so I'm an optimistic
person but I'd rather be you know safe
than sorry so I always do my estimates
on the top of page bid the high range I
never do it on the low range and this is
just an estimate just cuz it says $183
doesn't mean you're gonna spend $183 per
click if you want to show up for this
keyword personal injury attorney it
might be less and it might be more so
you really want to take this number with
a grain of salt but it's a good way to
just kind of get started when you're
putting together your budget now with
that being said using the Google Keyword
planner just go through here and look
for all these different potential
keywords that you want to bid on and
also potential negative keywords that
you'd want to block from your campaign
if your Excel savvy and you're used to
using Excel you can also download the
keyword ideas into an excel file and
then you can view all the data from an
excel file as well I usually like to use
Excel just because I'm uncomfortable
with it learning Excel by the way if
you're a marketer and this is something
you do for clients learning Excel is a
huge skill set that will serve you
greatly as a marketer but as a business
owner at the very minimum you can keep
it really simple don't over complicate
this find keywords you like and
literally just copy it put into a
Microsoft Word document and paste here
are my positive keywords here are my
negative keywords or what you can do is
you can just select them so if you click
select like let's say I want to show up
for this keyword I want to show up for
this keyword this keyword for example
right here in the Google Keyword planner
you can click add to plan and then click
add to existing campaign I don't have
any campaigns in this account but you
would select the campaign you want to
add it to and then from here you can
click on the ad group specifically that
you want to add it to and you can even
set the match type for that keyword as
well so you can do everything in here in
the keyword planner and instantly poured
it into your Google Ads account so this
is the Google Ads Keyword planner and
honestly this one tool is of all the
tools and all the tactics if you had to
choose one thing this is the one thing
that you really only need to get started
is the Google Keyword planner because
with the Google Keyword planner you can
get access to tons and tons of different
potential positive keywords that you can
bid on
and negative keywords that you want to
exclude now that you have a solid
understanding of the keyword planner
let's get into tactic number three you
can use when performing Google Ads
research and that is suggested search
here's an example of what suggested
search looks like the get started just
go to google.com and suggested search is
all those different recommendations that
Google pops up based on the keyword you
put into the search bar so going back to
the example of personal injury attorney
I'm gonna type that in here you see all
these different recommendations here
these are different suggested searches
so I'm gonna put a personal injury
attorney and you can see here personal
injury attorney attorney near me Miami
Miami Florida for a lot of the Orlando
for a lot adil fresno pompano so this is
all different potential keyword ideas
for you that you can bid on as a
positive keyword or that you can exclude
as a negative keyword i'm gonna click
enter and we're gonna get more suggested
searches as well i scroll all the way
down here you can see here on the bottom
search is related a personal injury
attorney these are another way for you
to find those potential keywords
positive and negative that you can add
or exclude to your campaigns so
suggested search is a nice way for you
to get some ideas in terms of more
keywords that you that you could bid on
and or more keywords that you can
exclude as well tactic number four you
can use when performing google ads
keyword research is answer the public
comm and answer the public comm is
suggested search but on steroids in
order to get started with answer the
public you're gonna go to answer the
public comm and you're gonna get
directed to this page we're gonna see
this guy here just staring at you and
that's when you know you're in the right
spot and just to kind of recap answer
the public it is suggested search on
steroids
so answer the public puts together all
the different things people are
searching around your keyword and the
different questions they're asking so
you can essentially answer them so this
gives you a really really good
understanding on what people are looking
for when it comes to your keyword and
what they're searching so it gives you a
lot of good ideas now the only drawback
to this is with answer the public if you
want full access to be able to change
the region and to get unlimited searches
you do have to upgrade and pay for that
but just with
doing the you know the free option of
just getting a limited amount of
searches before they they ask you to
upgrade you should be more than fine so
to get started just go here to the
search bar type in your keyword that you
want to bid on related to your service
I'm gonna go back to that personal
injury attorney example and I'm gonna
click get questions so we're gonna see
what are the questions people are asking
in relation to our keyword and now it's
going to populate and then from here
let's just go ahead and scroll down and
it's gonna show you so much data in
regards to the keyword that you enter so
you can see the data differently you can
have it in this visualization and it'll
break it down on the different ways
people are asking these questions like
how are will can who where etc and then
you can kind of visualize it here or you
can just click data up here and it'll
break it down into each little section
so you can see our personal injury
lawyers worth it so these are all
different questions people are asking in
regards here your keyword so this is a
great market research tool and you can
see here do personal injury lawyers work
on contingency how do personal injury
attorneys get paid so these are all
different questions people are asking in
regards to this keyword and you can
scroll down and it'll really give you a
lot a lot a lot of different keyword
ideas that you might want to bid on or
that you might want to exclude so like
if I'm a personal injury attorney this
is something I want to exclude right
here how do personal injury attorneys
get paid I don't want to show up for
that I want to show up for when people
are actually needing my service and you
can just look through here and you get a
lot of ideas in terms of positive and
negative keywords they'll even break it
down here by prepositions and you can
see here you can get either visualize it
or just click data you can see can for
is and it just gives you so many
different keyword ideas you have your
comparisons so and like or versus these
are and hasn't even broken down by
alphabetical so you can see a b c d e f
etc etc so you can literally go through
here and just again keep it real simple
copy and paste into a Microsoft Word doc
all your positive keyword ideas and then
all the
negative keyword ideas you get from this
so that way you can put it later and
organize it into the right ad groups and
you have just tons and tons of keyword
ideas here so this is a great resource
for you to check out answer the public
comm you can also download all this
information into a CSV again if your
excel savvy if not just keep it real
simple copy paste that into a word doc
organize it and then put them into the
right ad groups and you'll be good to go
the fifth and final tactic you can use
when performing Google Ads keyword
research actually involves spying on the
competition using a paid spy tool now
there's a lot of different paid spy
tools out there but in this video I want
to talk about the one that I personally
love to use the most and that's spyfu in
order to get started with spyfu you're
gonna go to spyfu comm and you're gonna
get directly to this page and in this
search bar we can search our competitors
to get different potential keyword ideas
of things that we possibly have missed
on positive and negative keywords ideas
and and spyfu is an amazing resource in
terms of keyword research because you
can see what your competitors are
already doing so if you're just starting
out you haven't ran campaigns before
instead of you trying to figure
everything out and starting from scratch
if you can just kind of spy in on your
competition and see hey what keywords
are they running on ads on and which
ones have they been running for the
longest and what kind of ads are they
writing that they've been serving the
longest this is gonna give you really
good understanding on what's working for
your competition and again potential
positive and negative keyword ideas that
you might want to add or exclude from
your campaigns now let's get started go
to spyfu and just type in the website of
one of your competitors so let's say
nike just for an example I'll search in
Nike comm so we can get the inside scoop
on what Nike is doing in terms of their
paid search so you can see here it's
gonna give you an overview so spyfu also
gives you a lot of SEO information as
well but for the sake of this video
we're gonna focus on paid search so
we're gonna see here
according to spyfu nike is spending an
estimated monthly adwords budget of two
hundred and seventy three thousand
dollars so they are spending some money
and they're getting their bidding on an
estimated 18,000 keywords and they're
getting about 932 thousand monthly PPC
clicks so to get started to kind of look
in on these keywords we're gonna click
on paid keywords right here or you can
go to the PPC research tab right here
and you can just kind of drop down to
PPC keywords and we're gonna see here
all the different keyword ideas that
Nike is bidding on now the drawback with
spyfu is if you want to get access to
all the keyword ideas and all the
different ads that they're running you
do have to upgrade it is a paid tool
just like answer the public if you want
to get exclusive access I highly
recommend doing it even for just one
month to get a really good detailed
understanding on what your competitors
are up to and then you can cancel your
subscription but there are a lot of spy
tools out there but spyfu is the one
that I like personally because it's just
really easy to use but you'll see here
in the PPC keywords tab you're gonna see
all the different keywords that Nike is
bidding on their estimated cost per
click monthly searches etc but really
what you want to look for again is just
look through this keyword list keep it
real simple is there anything that Nikes
bidding on if they're your competition
or going back to that personal injury
attorney if there are any keywords that
your personal injury competition is
bidding on that you want to go ahead and
take that keyword and bid on it yourself
or maybe they have some keywords here
that you're like okay that's really not
good for me that you want to block and
add them as a negative the other thing
as well is when you're using spyfu you
want to sort by total ads here so if
they have a lot of total ads on a
certain keyword then you know that
keyword is working from them because
they're they're running a lot of ads
behind that keyword so you want to sort
by total ads and that'll show you which
are their top keywords that they've been
running ads on the longest the other
thing as well is if you want to see the
actual ads that they're running for
these keywords just go ahead and click
on ad history and this is going to show
you what ads your competition is running
so from an ad creation standpoint you
can get the edge this way as well with
spyfu it's really cool so once this
loads it's going to show me different
ads that that Nike is running for these
different keywords so even when it comes
to creating the ads you don't have to
serve from scratch with a spy tool like
this
you can see what the competition is up
to you can see oh they've been running
this ad the most so can i recreate this
ad in a similar way that that makes
sense for my business and and kind of
you know takes the good from their ad so
you can see here for Nike the keyword
this ad is the one that they've been
running the longest so spyfu is a great
tool for finding potential positive and
negative keywords and AD ideas that you
might want to bid on or not bid on for
your business that is it from this video
just a quick recap don't overthink this
if you have to choose one tactic to just
get started use the Google Keyword
planner find those positive keywords
find those negative keywords and get
your campaigns launched as soon as
possible so you can start getting real
feedback and you can check your search
terms report and start adding additional
positive keywords and excluding
additional negative keywords you can
always use additional tactics later on
to expand your account to add more
keywords and to find more negative
keywords this is an iterative process
and as your account grows and builds you
will continue to add and exclude more
and more keywords
I hope you got tremendous value from
this video if you did if you can like
the video that'll help me out a ton and
if you like content like this on Google
advertising if you want to subscribe to
the channel to be notified of weekly
uploads make sure to hit the subscribe
button down below and click that Bell
notification icon and if you want to
learn how to launch profitable
successful Google ad campaigns feel free
to check out my 7 step checklist for
launching successful Google ad campaigns
is coming out soon you can find that in
the description box down below thanks so
much for watching I'll see you in the
next one take care